Artist's Statement 

Created in the context of the COVID-19 crisis, the Social Distancing game is a reflection of the actual preoccupations regarding the transmission of the virus and the shortage of individual protection equipment. It also illustrates with irony the strange chain reaction we saw happening in the community: the toilet paper stock up. Indeed, the goal of the game is to collect as many toilet paper rolls as possible without getting infected by the virus. I made the other characters also collect the rolls to give the impression they are competing to get them, but in reality, they don’t look for it, they just move randomly in the page with new random velocities each two seconds. Talking of the characters, they represent the “predators” in this game, a wink to the fear of others that is being felt in the society. The player has to keep other characters out of his security perimeter (the red ellipses around him) or else his level of infection will increase. This goes along with the discourse we all heard and know today: social distancing is the best way to slow down the propagation; the less contact you have with people the less chance you have to catch and transmit the virus. The level of infection of the player is illustrated with a jQuery UI progress bar fixed at top of the screen. For the player security perimeter, I used the P5 library to display the ellipses and append the canvas to a <div>.
Moreover, I added two different types of power-up items. The first one is a bottle of hand sanitizer that decreases the player’s level of infection when he picks it up. The second one is a collection of three protection items the player has to collect in order to unlock the protection mode. To make it visually clear, I made a box fixed on the left of the body that contains translucent images of the protection items (a glove, a mask and an overall). When the player collects one of these items, the image becomes opaque and when the three items are collected and the protection mode is unlocked, the box becomes green and tells the player to hit a key for immunity. When the player hit a key, his character image change for one of the character wearing the protection items he picked up and the player is immune for 10 seconds. To visually display the time left in the protected mode, I animated the green box height by decreasing it every frame until its height is 0.
To check the overlaps between all characters (including the player) as well as those between collectables and player/characters, I used the .collision() function from jQuery library extension “jquery-collision”. Since this function stores in an array the touched elements, I used .length to check if the array contains more than 0 object. I noticed that the function was not always accurate and understood the problem comes from the way the top and left positions are calculated with rotated <divs>. Indeed, when an element is rotated, the positions don’t correspond to one of its corner coordinates as I expected. The left position corresponds to the left coordinate of the left corner and the top position, to the top coordinate of the top corner. To overcome this problem, I used two <divs> for each rotating element (all collectables, characters and player): one that I called “perimeter” that is used to check collision with other elements and another one that contains the image, is used for rotation and is the child of the first one.
For the walk animation, I made sprite sheets for each character and used .css() to change the background position. Made an array containing the different background positions and used a variable that keeps track of the walk frame as the array index.
At the end of the game, when the player is infected, a dialog box opens and tells him he is infected. When, he clicks “Next”, the dialog box change and now tells the player to go home and stay isolated from the world. The player then has no other choice than to “resign” and click the button “Go home”. When the player is “home”, the dialog box opens and tells him that, at least, he collected a certain number of toilet paper rolls, like if having those would make him feel better. To emphasis the non-sense of stocking this particular commodity, I appended a “pile of poo” emoji image in the dialog box and referred to it in the displayed text saying it is a “shitty” situation. The non-sense of stocking that amount of toilet paper is also emphasized in the final “animation” of 1000 toilet paper rolls on screen. To create this animation, I used a for loop that displays 1000 times a roll randomly in the body after a delay related to “i”, or the “loop turn number”.
